(drumroll)
(rousing orchestral
fanfare playing)
(fanfare ends)
ASTRONAUT (on radio):
For those who haven't read the plaque,
we'll read the plaque.
"Here men from the planet Earth
first set foot upon the moon.
"July 1969.
We came in peace
for all mankind."
("It's the End of the World as We Know It"
by REM playing over radio)
♪ It's the end of the world
as we know it ♪
♪ It's the end
of the world ♪
♪ As we know it ♪
♪ It's the end
of the world... ♪
(beeping)
♪ And I feel fine... ♪
♪ 6:00, TV hour,
don't get caught-- ♪
-(turns music off)
-(pulsing signal)
(phone rings)
If this isn't an insanely
beautiful woman, I'm hanging up.
Sir, I think you should
listen to this.
(pulsing)
Agh!
-Goddamn it!
-Sir?
-Ow!
WOMAN: Come on, baby,
come on, baby, come on!
This better not be another damn
Russian spy job!
Boys from air traffic res
say skies are clear.
It's the real thing.
A radio signal
from another world.
Let's not jump
the gun here.
Get online with Space Command.
They're gonna want to know--
What's with the golf balls?
You're gonna kill me here!
Wait, this can't be right.
The calculated distance from source
is only 375,000 kilometers.
It's coming from the moon.
(pulsing)
GENERAL GREY:
Who else knows about this?
SETI in New Mexico
identified a signal.
But, uh, they're even more
confused than we are, sir.
Excuse me.
-Major!
-Yes, sir.
Radar reception has been impaired
but we were able to get these.
We estimate that it has a diameter
of over 550 kilometers
and a mass roughly
one fourth the size of our moon.
GREY:
What the hell is it?
-A meteor?
-No, sir.
-No, definitely not.
-How do you know?
Well, sir, it's slowing down.
-It's what?
-It's, uh...
It's slowing down, sir.
Get me the Secretary of Defense.
Then wake him!
(phone rings)
-Hello.
-MARILYN (over phone): Hi.
-It's me.
-Hi.
What time is it there?
It's 2:45 in the morning.
I know I didn't wake you.
As a matter of fact, you did.
Liar.
I have a confession to make.
I'm sleeping next
to a beautiful, young brunette.
You didn't let her stay up
all night watching TV? Did you?
Of course not.
You're coming home
after the luncheon?
Yes, yes.
-Mommy?
-Here's your mother.
Hi, honey!
Hi, I miss you.
-I know! I miss you too...
-President Whitmore's approval ratings
have slipped below 40 percent.
-Even his crime bill failed to pass.
-He's good.
Are the salad days over
for President Whitmore?
-Morton.
-Leadership as a pilot in the Gulf War
is completely different
from leadership in politics.
Daddy let me watch Letterman.
Traitor.
That's the problem.
They elected a warrior and got a wimp.
Morning, George.
Morning, Mr. President.
That game couldn't
have been pretty.
Thank you, sir.
Connie, you're up awfully
early this morning.
They're not attacking your policies,
they're attacking your age.
Addressing Congress:
"Whitmore seems less like the president
"and more like the orphaned child Oliver
asking, 'Please, sir,
I'd like some more.'"
That's clever.
Well, I'm not laughing.
Age was never an issue
when you stuck to your guns.
You were thought of
as young, idealistic...
-Thanks.
-Now the message has gotten lost.
It's just too much politics.
It's too much compromise.
Isn't it amazing how quickly
everyone can turn against you?
Excuse me, Mr. President.
It's the Secretary of Defense.
Yes.
Could you say that again?
MALE DEEJAY (on radio): You're listening
to WXBY out here in Brooklyn.
Temperature is 95 degrees
in Central Park.
What it is here in the
borough, God only knows.
Let's go to Nick Jones
and give us a traffic report
for the beaches
in case anybody's not
out there already.
So why are
you waiting, hm?
My Social Security will expire,
you'll still be sitting there.
I'm thinking.
Yeah, well, think already!
Do you have any idea how long it takes
for those cups to decompose?
If you don't move soon,
I'm gonna start to decompose.
Ah...
Listen, David, I've been
meaning to talk with you.
It's nice that you
see me so much now...
Don't start, Dad.
I'm only saying
it's been what? Four years?
You're still wearing
a wedding band?
-Three years.
-All right, three, four.
You're divorced, move on.
This is not healthy.
No, this is not healthy.
The smoking is not healthy.
Checkmate.
Wait a minute.
Wait a minute, wait a minute.
This is not checkmate.
See you tomorrow, Pop.
Just hold on!
This is not checkmate.
Oh, checkmate!
We've got everybody we have
working on the problem.
Yeah, I love X-Files, too.
I hope you get to see it.
David! David!
What the hell's the point of having
a beeper if you don't turn it on?
It was turned on.
I was ignoring you.
What's the...
What's the big emergency?
It started this morning.
Every station's making
like it's the 1950s.
We got static, we got snow,
all kinds of distortions.
-Marty.
-Nobody knows...
What the hell you doin'? There's a reason
we have bins labeled "Recycle"!
What the hell is going on?
My God in heaven!
So sue me. David!
We got a problem!
Did you switch
transponder channels?
Oh, please!
You think I'd be this panicked
if it was something simple?
Okay, let's point
the dish at another satellite.
We tried that. It didn't work.
It's almost as though
they weren't even there.
All right.
What have we got here?
This is impossible.
We created a race of robots.
Their function is to...
TROY:
The signal's all screwed up.
Stop it! Just
leave it alone. You'll break it!
Oh, it's so fuzzy.
(truck horn blares)
Oh, no.
Good morning, Lucas.
You see these? I got
a whole goddamn crop full of these.
If your father's
not in the air in 20 minutes...
I'm getting someone else.
Russell!
Hey, Miguel!
(laughs)
Agh!
Whoo!
Ya-hoo!
Russell!
What are you doing?
Just what in the hell
do you think you're doing?
Whoa!
It's the wrong field,
you idiot!
Lucas's farm's
on the other side of town!
Are you sure?
(speaking in Spanish)
CNS is running a story
that we're covering up
some kind of
nuclear-testing experiment.
Tell 'em to run with it
if they want
to embarrass themselves.
NASA's been on my butt all morning.
They wanna know our position.
Our official position is
we have no official position.
-Connie!
-What is going on here?
Guys, would I keep you
out of the loop?
-Yes.
-Absolutely.
What? I can't hear you.
At the moment, our satellites
are somewhat unreliable.
Isn't it possible that this
thing may just pass us by?
What if it doesn't pass us by?
Why don't we target some ICBMs
to blow it out of the sky?
And risk turning one
dangerous falling object into many?
We don't yet know enough about
what we're dealing with
to make any kind
of intelligent judgments.
Luckily, the press is making up
their own story at this point.
But that's not
gonna keep.
We may need to upgrade
to DEFCON 3.
Absolutely.
General, contact NORAD.
You tell them we've upgraded to DEFCON 3.
That's not what
the president said.
Don't you think that's
a little premature?
We have over 50 percent of the
armed forces on weekend leave.
Not to mention the
commanders and troops
that are in town for
the Fourth of July parade.
-Go ahead, Commander.
-Our intelligence tells us
The object has settled
into a stationary orbit.
Well, that's good news.
Uh, not really, sir.
Part of it has broken off into nearly
three dozen other pieces.
Smaller than the whole, sir,
yet over 15 miles in width themselves.
Where are they heading?
They should be entering our atmosphere
within the next 25 minutes.
-This had better be good.
-Admiral on deck!
Sir, we're looking at a total
radar blackout over a 13-kilometer area.
-Let's do a diagnostic check.
-Excuse me, sir.
The radar may be malfunctioning,
but the infrared is totally off the map.
(pulsing)
Jeez.
Get me Atlantic Command on the line.
Hang on, sir.
Sir, we have visual range with incoming
over Iraqi air space.
-Second sighting?
-Yes, sir.
This just came in
from the Persian Gulf.
Correction, sir.
We now have two confirmed visual contacts.
That's affirmative. Mr. President,
they're tracking another one
off the California coastline!
All right, go ahead. Put it on.
General, you might wanna watch this.
MALE NEWS ANCHOR:
Ladies and gentlemen,
we are interrupting
our regular broadcast
to bring you extraordinary events
taking place in the Russian Republic.
FEMALE NEWS ANCHOR:
This unexplained disturbance
and the hysteria that
it's causing are incredible.
FEMALE REPORTER: How would you
describe what you are seeing?
It is clearing the mountains,
moving too slowly to be a comet or meteor.
Widespread panic
has gripped the countryside
as thousands have
taken to the streets.
It is confirmed. The unexplained
phenomenon is headed for Moscow.
Mr. President, we have
an AWAC off the West Coast.
ETA with contact point,
three minutes.
♪ ♪
Don't understand it, sir.
Side radar doesn't see a thing.
-I know! I'm blind, sir.
-Nothing is registering.
Negative. We have zero visibility.
Visibility is at zero.
Command, this is
Eagle Eye 370.
GREY: Captain,
the president is listening.
Repeat what you just told me.
MAN: We still have
zero visibility.
Instrumentation is malfunctioning.
We can't get any kind of reading
on what's in front of us.
Wait a minute.
It may be clearing.
♪ ♪
Pull up! Pull up!
Line's gone, sir.
Two more have been
spotted over the Atlantic.
One's moving toward New York,
the other's headed this direction.
-How much time do we have?
-Less than 10 minutes.
Alex, organize a military escort.
Mr. President, I strongly recommend
we move you to
a secure location, immediately.
Connie, can we expect the same kind
of panic we saw in Russia?
More than likely.
Mr. President, we can
discuss this on the way.
I'm not leaving.
We have to maintain
a working government.
I want you to get the vice president,
the whole cabinet, and the joint chiefs
and take them to a secured location.
I'm staying.
I don't want to add to a public hysteria
that's gonna cost lives.
-Connie.
-Yes, sir?
We'll initiate
the Emergency Broadcast System.
We'll advise people not to panic.
The best idea right now
is to stay in their homes.
Yes, sir. Roy? Dean?
NIMZIKI: Alex, contact
the cabinet members.
Have them rendezvous here,
we'll take them to NORAD.
Mr. President, with your permission,
I'd like to remain at your side.
I had a feeling you would.
And what happens
if they do become hostile?
Then God help us.
There it is. The strange
atmospheric phenomenon.
It is apparently what is
causing all the distortions...
-David, are you watching this?
-(pulsing signal)
GREY (on TV): There is no evidence that
these phenomena are endangering anyone.
Thus far,
reports of aggression...
Marty, listen to this.
I got a lock on the pattern of that signal
so we can filter it out.
But if my calculations are right,
it's gonna be gone in like,
seven hours anyway.
It's reducing itself
every time it recycles
so eventually
it's gonna disappear...
-Are you listening?
-Can you believe this?
David, haven't you been
watching? David!
Good afternoon.
So far, the phenomenon
has not caused any damage.
We have to ask you to stay calm,
and it's important
for everyone not to panic.
We have a fix on three of the occurrences
about to appear...
-It's just unreal.
-Hey, Miguel, come here!
One is headed towards Los Angeles,
the other two are on our eastern seaboard
headed towards New York
and Washington, DC.
Marty. Marty! Jamie says this building
has an old bomb shelter.
We're heading
down there now.
Okay, everybody!
Head down to the basement!
Take it slow, don't run.
Walk down to the basement!
There's no shame in hiding.
Oh, I'd better call my mother.
♪ ♪
(laughter)
Well, look who we have here.
Hey, Russ, I heard you had
a little trouble this morning.
Dusted the wrong field.
I know you're probably
still a little confused
from your hostage experience.
Hostage experience?
Did something
happen to you, Russ?
Oh yeah. Seems years back, our boy here
was kidnapped by aliens.
Did all kind of experiments
on him and such.
Tell them about it, Russ.
Get a couple beers in him
and he'll tell you all about it.
Crazy stuff.
Won't you, Russ?
Russ, when they took you up
in their spaceship,
did they do any,
I don't know, sexual things?
Do you recall?
Do you recollect?
♪ ♪
-What's that?
-Let's get out of here, come on!
Wow.
Oh, my God.
♪ ♪
(toy squeaks)
Mommy, look it!
It's too early, baby.
Is it an earthquake?
Not even a four-pointer.
Go back to sleep.
♪ ♪
Daddy!
What are you doing here?
You should be down
in the shelter.
What's going on?
(rap music
playing on boom box)
(screeching tires)
-Aren't you coming, David?
-I gotta see this.
MAN:
Oh, man! What is that?
(people clamoring)
(car horn blares)
(truck horn blares)
-(clamoring)
-(horse neighs)
The signal.
My God.
Now what do we do?
Address the nation.
There's gonna be a lot
of frightened people out there.
Yeah.
I'm one of 'em.
Hey, hey, hey.
Come on.
He's just trying
to impress you.
If you wanna impress me,
you need to get a job
and stop slobbering
all over my shoes.
(car horns
honking in distance)
I don't believe this.
Jasmine!
Neighbors are moving out.
I guess they finally got
tired of all these quakes.
A little shake
and they running.
MALE NEWS REPORTER:
Police and fire departments
are asking everyone
to stay off the phone.
There's something on the news
about the quake!
-What's up, man?
-Hey, Steve.
-What you doing going out there?
-Shooting aliens.
Oh, you shooting aliens.
You think you're tough, huh?
What you got? Turn around.
Come on, let's get
you something to eat.
Watch out!
Watch it now!
-I'm gonna go grab the paper.
-All right.
Ow! Dylan!
MAN:
Come on, honey, let's go!
(rumbling)
(helicopter approaching)
Babe, you want
some of this coffee?
Babe?
Boom! Boom! Boom!
♪ ♪
Pentagon officials are warning
more ships have just arrived
over the capitals
of India, England, and Germany,
bringing estimates up to anywhere from 10
to 15 of these city-size spacecraft.
MARTY: I know, Ma.
Just try and stay calm.
Tell her to pack up
and leave town.
-Why? What happened?
-Just do it!
Ma! Ma, listen!
Uh, get your stuff together
and head for Aunt Esther's.
Don't argue with me!
Just go!
David! Why did I just
send my mother to Atlanta?
David! David, talk to me.
Didn't you hear me tell you that
the signal hidden in the satellite feed
is slowly recycling down
to extinction?
-Not really.
-Countdown.
A countdown?
A countdown to what, David?
It's like in chess.
First you strategically
position your pieces.
Then, when the timing's right,
you strike. See?
They're positioning themselves
all over the world
using this one signal
to synchronize their efforts.
In approximately six hours,
the signal's gonna disappear
and the countdown's
gonna be over.
And then what?
Checkmate.
(gasps)
Oh, my God!
Oh, my God,
I gotta call my brother.
I'd better call my housekeeper.
I gotta call my lawyer!
Ah, forget my lawyer.
Ladies and gentlemen,
the president of the United States.
Good afternoon.
My fellow Americans,
a historic and unprecedented
event has occurred.
The question of whether or not
we're alone in the universe
has been answered.
Although it's understandable
that many of us feel a sense of
hesitation or even fear,
we must attempt
to reserve judgment.
(whispers)
He says he's your husband.
Oh, God.
-What do you want?
-You gotta leave the White House.
This is hardly the time nor the place
to be having that same old discussion.
You don't understand.
You gotta leave Washington.
In case you haven't noticed, we are having
a little bit of a crisis here!
Honey, they're communicating with
a hidden signal. They're gonna attack.
-You are just being paranoid!
-It's not paranoia!
The embedding's very subtle.
It was probably overlooked.
(hangs up; dial tone)
(hangs up receiver)
(sighs)
Marty, what are you doing?
Get out of town as soon as you can.
-Please?
-Okay.
PRESIDENT WHITMORE: The staff and I
will remain in the White House,
as we attempt
to establish communication.
If you feel compelled
to leave these cities,
please do so
in an orderly fashion.
(car horns blaring)
(glass smashing)
(bicycle bell rings)
Excuse me!
Coming through!
MALE REPORTER: The arrival of
the alien visitors has caused
over 10,000 fender benders
in just a few seconds time.
But this is
just the beginning.
You can't go!
You got to call them back!
I'm not gonna do this
with you, Jasmine.
I've got to report
to El Toro.
You said you
was on leave for the Fourth!
Yeah, well,
they canceled it!
Look, why are you
acting like this?
Why?
That's why!
(helicopter passing)
Look, I really
don't think
they flew 90 billion light years
to come and start a fight.
And get all rowdy.
Look, why don't you
just relax?
I'm gonna report to El Toro,
find out what's going on.
What are you
doing in there, man?
Nothing, I'm just driving.
Look.
Hey, I got
these for you.
-Firecrackers!
-You be careful.
Steve, wait.
-I wanna tell you something.
-What is it, Jasmine?
You take care of yourself,
you hear?
Look, um...
Why don't you get
some things, packed,
and you and Dylan come
stay with me on the base?
You will see that there
is nothing to be scared of.
Really?
You don't mind?
Well, I mean...
I will have to let
all my other girlfriends know
they can't come over. I got
to postpone a freaky weekend.
There you go, there he goes,
thinking you're all that.
But you are not as charming
as you think you are, sir.
Yes, I am.
Them big old Dumbo ears.
Look at you
with them chicken legs.
(clucks)
Come on, Dylan.
(people screaming)
(glass smashing;
car alarms blaring)
Look out!
Hey! Whoa!
The television said they
started the looting. Vultures.
Do you still have the Plymouth?
You wanna borrow the car?
David, you don't have a license.
You're driving.
Yeah, I'm driv--
I'm driving?
Come on, come on!
I really want you
out of Los Angeles.
You're staying there to keep people calm.
It's the right thing to do.
I'm not going to let them
criticize you for it.
I appreciate
your trying to help me.
Liar. Stick to the truth.
It's what you're good at.
Alright. I'll tell you the truth. I don't
want you in any one of those cities.
(sighs)
I'll leave as soon
as the interviews are done.
All right. There's a
helicopter waiting.
They're going to
take you to Nellis.
-And the munchkin?
-She's gonna meet you there.
All right.
I love you.
-Bye.
JULIUS: It's the White House!
For crying out loud.
You can't just drive up
and ring a bell.
Can't this go any faster?
You think they
don't know what you know?
They know! Believe me, they know.
She works for the president.
-They know everything.
-They don't know this.
You're gonna educate them, huh?
Tell me something, huh, you're so smart?
How come you spent eight years in MIT
to become a cable repairman?
Dad...
All I'm saying is they got
people who handle these things.
If they want HBO, they'll call you.
Look at these
people, look. Huh?
Vultures.
They take and then they go.
They're going faster than we are.
We're in the fast lane!
-They're cutting me off.
-No one's cutting you off!
They're getting in front of me.
I can't go any faster.
All right! I don't wanna argue. Let's just
get there as quickly as possible.
What's the rush, huh?
You think we'll get to Washington
and it won't be there?
A local crop-duster
was arrested today
as he papered City Hall
with leaflets from the air.
Everybody's leaving.
Can you give us some of your time?
You want to make a statement?
We've got to stop them!
I was kidnapped
by space aliens ten years ago!
They did all kinds of
experiments on me!
They've been studying us for years,
finding out our weaknesses!
We've gotta stop 'em!
They're gonna kill us all!
Some people attribute
his eccentric behavior
to post-traumatic
stress syndrome
from his service
as a pilot in Vietnam.
Others, however,
have a more unusual theory.
How would you describe
Mr. Casse?
-Keeps to himself. Real quiet.
-Private.
When they took him up
in the spaceship,
the aliens abused him sexually.
REPORTER: Mr. Casse is in
the county lockup this evening.
Pack up. We're leaving.
Given extenuating circumstances,
he may be released
later tonight...
Miguel, what about Dad?
This could be our
last night on Earth.
You don't wanna die
a virgin, do you?
-Come on! We're going.
-No, I'm not going anywhere.
Miguel!
Stop it!
Thanks a lot, partner!
Remember!
Get as far away
from these things as you can!
You read my mind!
We gotta get as far away
from these things as we can!
-They let you out?
-You damn right!
They got bigger fish to fry now,
believe you me!
Come on, boy!
The L.A.P.D. is asking
Los Angelinos
not to fire their guns
at the visitor spacecraft.
You may inadvertently trigger
an interstellar war.
You think we can find
something better to do
with our time, gentlemen?
Where you been, Stevie?
Man, this is unbelievable.
This is, like, huge.
They've recalled everybody.
Looks like the mail's
still working.
Oh! Oh, oh.
Uh... You'll have to do
the honors for me, man.
-You're a wuss.
-Whatever. Shut up and read it.
It says,
"Captain Steven Hiller"--
loser.
-Come on, come on!
-United States Marine Corps,
blah, blah, blah, blah...
"We regret to
inform you that
despite your
excellent record of service--""
I'm sorry, man.
You know what
you need to do?
You need to, like,
kiss some serious booty
to get ahead in this world.
That's what I'm
trying to tell you.
See, I like the
one-knee approach
because it
puts the booty,
like, right in front
of the lip--
-What's this?
-That's nothing.
What is this?
Jasmine kind of has
a thing for dolphins.
Stevie, this is
a wedding ring.
I thought you said you were gonna
break the whole thing off?
(sighs) Yes.
Man, you know I really like Jasmine.
You know that, right?
Man, you're never gonna get to fly
the space shuttle if you marry a stripper.
(dance music
playing over speakers)
MALE REPORTER (on TV): It Could Only
Happen in California File,
Here's Wendy Walsh
with a special report.
WENDY WALSH: Below us, we can see
hundreds of UFO fanatics
who have gathered on rooftops
here in downtown Los Angeles
to welcome the new arrivals.
Oh, God! I hope
they bring back Elvis!
I just came in to get my check tonight
and I got talked into working.
Oh, I must have been tripping.
FEMALE REPORTER: It's being called
the party event of the century!
and everyone is invited,
especially you-know-who.
-This is so cool!
-Girl, please!
Oh, hey! I made it
before I came in tonight.
Check it out.
Now, I know you're not thinking
about joining those idiots.
Oh, I am going over there
as soon as I get off.
-Do you wanna come?
-Tiffany, listen to me a sec.
I've got a really
bad feeling about this.
I don't want you to go.
-Now promise me you won't.
-Oh!
Come on, girl!
Promise me.
I promise.
Okay.
Look. I'm out of
town for a while.
-Later.
-Bye.
(car horns blaring)
Everyone in the world is trying
to get out of Washington.
We're the only schmucks
trying to get in.
MALE REPORTER (on radio): ...establish
some line of communication.
What the hell is that?
Pops, this is every
phone book in America.
You think an important person
like Constance is gonna be listed?
She always keeps her portable phone
listed for emergencies.
Demonstrators in front of the White House
are protesting the military involvement
with our first contact
with the alien visitors.
(people clamoring)
(indistinct radio chatter)
So...?
Do you wanna
ring the bell, or should I?
(busy tone beeping)
Oh, perfect, she's using it.
What? It's busy?
Yeah, I can use her signal to triangulate
her exact position in the White House.
-You can do that?
-Yeah.
All cable repairmen can, Pops.
Visitors have arrived, but the president
remat the White House.
Question.
Are Mr. Whitmore's actions:
A, ultra brave,
-or B, foolhardy?
-(phone rings)
-What?
-DAVID: Don't hang up, sweetie.
(whispering)
David! How did you get this number?
DAVID: Do me a favor.
Walk to the window.
And I'm looking for what?
You'll see.
Over here.
(overlapping chatter)
See us?
How does he do that?
In light of our apparent inability
to communicate with the visitors,
Pentagon officials have retrofit
this Skylift helicopter
with a type of visual
communications device.
-Mr. President.
-Gentlemen, be seated.
-Where are we now?
-We're just commencing liftoff.
...and refitted with these
enormous light panels
that are attached to the hull
and onto the sides.
MALE PILOT: Echo One,
Welcome Wagon is in the air.
I repeat, Welcome Wagon
is in the air.
-Roger, Welcome Wagon.
-Echo One, right beside you.
This is something I would never
believe in my lifetime that I would be.
In the White House!
Look at this!
If I knew I was gonna
meet the president,
I would have worn a tie.
Look at me,
I look like a schlemiel.
You look fine, Pops.
Oy, my God!
David, I don't know how happy
he's gonna be to see you.
Then we're wasting time, he's
not going to listen to me, we should go.
Why wouldn't he listen?
Last time I saw him,
we got into a fight.
You walked in the room
and punched him in the head.
-You punched the president?
-He wasn't president then.
I punched him, he fought back.
We wrestled around, it was a fight!
A fight that
you started!
David thought
I was having an affair.
-With the president?
-Which, of course, I wasn't!
Either go get him,
or we should head back.
All right, I'll get him.
You wait here, and don't
touch anything!
You punched the president?
God!
Nearing point of contact,
Echo One.
We're closing in.
MALE CONTROLLER: Roger that.
Commence sequence when ready.
The three choppers
are steadily approaching
what has been
unanimously agreed
to be the front
of these spaceships,
a parabolic indentation
nine city blocks...
You're leaving now?
See if they've got
those pens that they give away.
Dad, what?
I don't have a choice...
-I don't have time for this.
-Two minutes, Tom, please.
Mr. President,
Julius Levinson.
David is my son.
-I told you he wouldn't listen.
-You have to tell him now.
David, you have to tell him!
David, tell him!
Uh, I know why we have
satellite disruption.
All right. Go ahead.
Okay.
Let's say that you wanted to
coordinate with spaceships
on different sides
of the Earth.
They couldn't send
a direct signal, right?
-You're talking about line of sight?
-Yeah, that's right exactly.
The curve of the
Earth prevents it.
You'd need satellites to relay that signal
in order to reach each ship.
Well, I found a signal
hidden inside
our own satellite system.
Excuse me, Mr. President.
They're starting.
They're using our
own satellites against us.
The clock is ticking.
Bringing it in to hover.
Welcome Wagon, Echo One.
Approaching alien ship.
Initiating communication
sequence, Echo One.
Welcome Wagon
has commenced.
General Grey, coordinate
with the Atlantic Command.
Tell them to evacuate as many people
out of the cities as they can.
Yes, sir.
Get those helicopters
away from the ship.
Call them back immediately!
-What the hell's going on?
-We're leaving.
Kim! My daughter.
Uh... There's something
happening here.
They're responding.
-Something's opening.
-Something is happening.
It looks like there's
some kind of activity here.
This may be a response,
Echo One.
MAN: We see it, too.
Can't identify it.
GREY:
We are evacuating.
I repeat, we are evacuating
the White House.
Load the rest of the staff
in the second helicopter.
-Is my wife in the air?
-She will be shortly.
Nice. Very nice.
-Good! Close the door!
-Hatch secure!
We have our own phone.
Move out of here.
The president's ordered an evacuation.
We have to leave now.
And our prayers go out to the wives
and children of those brave pilots.
-Indeed, God help us all.
-Mrs. Whitmore.
The visitors responded
with terrifying...
MALE REPORTER (on radio):
Authorities have called
for a complete evacuation
of Los Angeles County.
People are advised to avoid
the highways wherever possible.
Oh, yeah, great!
Now he tells me.
MALE OFFICER (on speaker):
This is the Los Angeles Police Department.
Please vacate
the premises immediately
for your own safety.
(crowd clamoring)
-Can we move it along?
-Dr. Katz's office.
Hello. Let me speak
to Dr. Katz, please.
-I'm sorry, he's not available.
-Listen, for $300 an hour,
you can put me through to his house
in the Hamptons!
MALE OFFICER (on speaker):
This is the Los Angeles Police Department.
Please vacate
the premises immediately
for your own safety.
Mrs. Whitmore!
You must leave now.
MAN: The First Lady's secured.
We're on the move.
They're opening up!
♪ ♪
It's so pretty.
Get the hell out of here!
Go ahead, pilot. We're ready
to take off right now.
Right away, sir.
Can we get a blanket
for Patricia?
Here.
Time's up.
(all clamoring)
(woman screaming)
Oh, crap.
(car alarm blares)
Oh, my God! Come on, Dylan!
We gotta go!
-Come on, Boomer!
-(BOOMER barks)
(DYLAN screaming)
Boomer!
Reports are unclear as to
the extent of the devastation,
but from all accounts,
Los Angeles, Washington,
and New York
have been left in ruins.
Good God!
I've been saying it.
I've been saying it for
ten damn years!
Ain't I been sayin' it, Miguel?
Huh? I've been saying it!
Dad, I'm sick.
I don't feel good.
Pull it over, man.
-We're gonna be all right, Troy.
-Yeah, leave me alone. I got it.
Miguel!
Look at all that.
We could have evacuated
the cities hours ago.
That's the advantage
of being a fighter pilot.
In the Gulf War,
we knew what we had to do.
This is just...
not simple any more.
A lot of people
died today.
How many didn't have to?
Any news on my wife yet?
The helicopter
never made it to Nellis.
No radio contact.
Come on, Dylan. Stay close.
Here it is.
What happened, Mommy?
I don't know, baby.
You men will be the first wave
in our counterattack.
Our target is to the north,
centered above what remains
of downtown Los Angeles.
Our Black Knight
Squadron...
-Are you scared, man?
-Nope.
-You?
-Hold me!
-Hey, hey, pay attention.
Something you wanna add to
this briefing, Captain Hiller?
No, sir. Just a little anxious to get up
there and whoop ET's ass, that's all.
(laughter)
You'll get your chance.
You'll all get
your chance.
Good hunting.
Dismissed!
Let's kick the tires and light
the fires, Big Daddy.
MAN:
Ready to go, sir!
Let's bring it home.
Bring that bad
boy home, Captain!
-You loose?
-Yes, sir!
-Got your victory dance?
-Oh, I got it right here, yeah!
Hey, don't get pre-patrol
on me, soldier.
We don't light up
till the fat lady sings.
I'm all ears, brother!
You the man!
All right, gentlemen, we're on.
General, it's NORAD.
General Grey here.
Al?
All satellite, microwave, and ground
communications with the cities are down.
All systems gone.
For intelligence, we believe
we're looking at a total loss.
How about our boys?
Where are they?
ETA to target,
four minutes.
I shouldn't have left her.
Don't worry
about it, big man.
I'm sure she got out of here
before it happened.
Or, as the good
reverend would say,
"Why we're on this particular mission,
we'll never know.
"But I do know, here today
that the Black Knights will
emerge victorious once again."
-Amen, man!
-Amen, Reverend.
Holy God.
Lock and load!
Roger that.
Los Angeles attack squadron
has Amraam missiles
locked on target.
Washington and New York
squadrons reporting lock-on.
Fire at will.
-Fire at will.
Knights, we are red and free.
Knight One, fox three!
Knight Three, fox three!
Knight Seven, fox three.
Missiles have been fired.
-Are they not getting through?
-No, sir, not one.
Command, Knight One. Switching
to Sidewinders, moving in.
Knight Three, Love 50.
Notch reference 1-2-0.
Knight Seven, 120.
Knight One, sweep lock.
Fox Two.
Knight Seven,
Come on, come on!
They must have some kind of
protective shield over that hull!
Knights, pull up! Pull up!
Knight Three, pull up!
Controls are showing
complete failure in the stats!
Pull up!
Agh!
Blow through, blow through!
Too many of 'em!
They got another one, sir.
Oh, no, you did not shoot
that green shit at me!
I got you covered,
Big Daddy.
Damn, they got shields too!
Let's go, Knights!
Move, Knights! Move!
(pilot screams)
Jesus!
They got another one, sir.
Two more just went down.
-They're dropping like flies.
-We're losing them.
All right,
get 'em out of there.
Squadron leaders,
retreat to fallback position.
Abort mission!
Abort mission right away!
Do you read me?
Do you copy?
We're gonna have to make
a run for this one!
Let's get low and fast!
I gotcha, Big Daddy!
Let's get 'em!
JIMMY: Whoo!
Watch the deck!
Squadron leader, abort! Abort!
This isn't happening
fast enough!
Get 'em out of there!
The monitor!
Where's the picture?
We've lost the satellite.
STEVEN: We got two
on our six, Jimmy. Shackle!
Roger.
Come on, come on!
Move, move, move!
He's on me like white
on rice, Big Daddy.
They ain't got nothing
for us! Let's push it!
I can't shake 'em.
Yes, you can. Just the way
I showed you. Let's go!
-I'm gonna try something.
-Don't do nothing stupid over there!
-You know me!
-That's what I'm talkin' about!
Aah!
Jimmy, you can't bank
at that speed!
-Jimmy, he's closing on you!
-(gasping)
Put your mask back on!
-That's an order, Marine!
-I can't breathe!
Jimmy!
Jimmy, no!
Affirmative.
We have incoming.
-Let me have it, son.
-You got it.
Friendly?
Sergeant?
I don't think so.
(air-raid siren blaring)
Let's get out of here!
Come on and get me!
Come and get me!
What are you shooting at?
Where you at, baby?
Come on! Come on!
You can't hit nothing!
(STEVE grunts emphatically)
Whoa! Low bridge!
Whoo!
See if you can fly
that thing under cover!
Ha-ha! Hope you got an airbag!
Whoo!
(grunts)
(gasping and grunting)
Aah!
Son of a bitch.
That's right!
Get off! Get off of me!
That's what you'll get!
Ha-ha!
Look at you!
Ship all banged up!
Who's the man?
Huh? Who's the man?
Wait till I get another plane!
I'm lining all your friends up,
right beside you!
Where you at? Huh?
Where you at?
Welcome to Earth.
That's what
I call a close encounter.
(BOOMER panting)
Baby, stay right here.
Stay right here with Boomer.
Keys. Come on, keys.
Yes!
Come, baby, come on.
Come on!
-(engine starts)
-Yes!
Reports indicate
that this battle
has repeated itself
all over the world
with the exact same results.
See, Troy? You're feeling
better already.
Everybody's packing up.
They're leaving.
They said there's a spaceship
headed this way.
We'd better leave too,
don't ya think?
(groaning)
It's Air Force One,
for crying out loud.
Still he gets sick.
-I don't feel so good.
-Look at me, huh? Like a rock.
Could be bad weather
or good weather. Doesn't matter.
We could go up,
we could go down.
We could go back,
we could go forward,
we could go
side to side and...
(groaning)
What did I say?
-He still gets airsick, huh?
-Yeah.
Julius, with all
of this, I, uh...
I didn't get a chance
to thank you two.
All he could think of
was getting to you.
There's still love there, I think.
Love was never a problem.
All you need is love.
John Lennon.
Smart man.
Shot in the back, very sad.
GREY: We've moved
as many of our forces
away from our bases
as possible.
But we've already
sustained heavy losses.
I spoke with the joint chiefs
when they arrived at NORAD.
They agree we must
launch a counteroffensive
with a full nuclear strike.
Over American soil?
You're saying at this
point, we should sacrifice
more innocent American
civilians? Is that right?
Sir, if we don't strike soon, there may
not be much of an America left to defend!
Sir!
They've taken out NORAD.
-What?
-It's gone, sir.
My God.
The vice president?
The joint chiefs?
Mr. President.
We must launch.
A delay now
would be more costly
than when you waited
to evacuate the cities.
You're not gonna launch
nuclear weapons.
You'll kill them and us at the same time.
If we fire nukes--
Sir, may I remind you,
you are a guest here?
You ever hear
of nuclear winter?
It's the end of life
as we know it.
CONSTANCE: Just go.
I don't have to go.
It can't be allowed!
Shut up! Captain, get him out of here!
Hey, don't tell him to shut up!
You'd all be dead now
if it wasn't for my David!
None of you did anything
to prevent this!
There was nothing
we could do.
We were totally
unprepared for this.
-Don't give me unprepared!
-Come on, Julius.
It was, what? In the 1950s,
you had that spaceship.
DAVID:
Dad. Look, Dad...
JULIUS: Yeah, that thing
you found in New Mexico!
-Where was that?
-No, not the spaceship.
Roswell.
Roswell, New Mexico.
No, you had the spaceship
and the bodies!
-Come on.
-They were locked up in a bunker.
Where was that?
Area 51. Right?
Area 51. You knew then!
And you did nothing.
Sir...
Regardless of what you may
have read in the tabloids,
there have never been
any spacecraft
recovered by our government.
Take my word for it.
There's no Area 51. Psh...
And there's
no recovered spaceship.
NIMZIKI: Uh, excuse me,
Mr. President...
That's not entirely accurate.
What? Which part?
Hold on, everybody! Hold on!
Sorry.
JASMINE:
Can you give me a hand?
MAN: Yeah, sure.
Oh, God...
(BOOMER barks)
Okay, okay,
let's get this off.
Here, let me help you.
She's hurt
pretty badly.
You know, this was supposed
to be my weekend off.
But, no!
You got me out here,
dragging your heavy ass
through the burning desert
with your dreadlocks sticking
out the back of my parachute.
You gotta come down here
with an attitude,
acting all big and bad.
And what the hell
is that smell?
Arrrrgh!
I could've been at
a barbecue!
But I ain't mad.
It's all right,
it's all right.
Hey!
Hey! Hey...
Do you need a lift,
soldier?
When I flew overhead, I saw
a base not too far from here.
It ain't on the map.
Trust me, it's there.
Attention!
Mr. President. General.
Welcome to Area 51.
Please follow me.
We're now 24 floors
beneath the surface
and, uh, here's our
main research facility.
Let's see it.
Sorry, sir, it's a clean room.
It's static free.
Open the door.
Yes, sir.
WHITMORE: My God.
Why the hell wasn't
I told about this place?
Two words, Mr. President.
Plausible deniability.
WHITMORE: I don't understand.
Where does all this come from?
How do you get funding
for something like this?
You don't actually think they spend
$20,000 on a hammer,
$30,000 on a
toilet seat, do you?
Mr. President,
this is Dr. Okun.
He's been heading up
the research department
on this project
the last 15 years.
How do you do?
(gasps)
Mr. President!
Wow!
Uh... This--
What a pleasure, heh.
As you can imagine, they...
They don't let us out much.
I can understand that.
(clears throat)
Well...
I guess you'd like to see
the big tamale, huh?
Follow me.
♪ ♪
She's a beaut, ain't she?
As you can see
from the repairs,
we've been trying to put her
back together since the late 1960s.
Don't tell me you've had this for 40 years
and you know anything about 'em?
Oh, hell, no.
No, no, no, no.
We know tons about 'em.
But the neatest stuff...
The neatest stuff has only
happened in the last few days.
See, we can't duplicate
their type of power,
so we've never been
able to experiment.
But since these guys
started showing up,
all the little gizmos
inside turned on.
Heh. The last 24 hours
have been really exciting!
Exciting?
People are dying out there.
I don't think exciting is the word
I'd choose to describe it!
You guys are hoping
to fly this thing, huh?
You said you can repair
their technology.
Can you tell us anything
useful about them?
Oh, yeah.
Well, I mean...
They're not all
that dissimilar from us.
Breathes oxygen,
comparable tolerances to heat, cold.
Probably why
they're interested in our planet.
Hey...
Hey.
You guys wanna see 'em?
Huh?
Uh, this is...
This is the vault.
Or, as some of us
have come to call it...
the freak show.
(snickering)
When we found 'em,
they were wearing some
sort of biomechanical suits.
Once we got 'em off,
we learned a great deal
about their anatomy.
Eyes, ears,
no vocal chords.
We're assuming
they communicate
with each other
through some other means.
You're obviously
not thinking
about hand signals
and body language.
No, it's some kind of
extrasensory perception.
Telepathy.
So...
It's an organic life form.
Can they be killed?
Their bodies are just
as frail as ours.
These two died
in the crash.
This one a
few weeks later.
You just have to get through
their technology, which is...
I'm sorry to say,
far more advanced.
David, you unlocked part
of their technology.
-You cracked the code.
-No, no.
All I did was stumble
on their, um,
signal. I don't know
how, uh, helpful I can be.
Why don't you show him
what you've discovered so far?
Figure out what
they haven't thought of yet.
We'll see if you're as smart
as we all hope you are.
What code?
Captain Steven Hiller,
United States Marine Corps.
I'm sorry, Captain.
This is a restricted area.
I can't let you pass
without clearance.
Okay. Come here.
You wanna see
my clearance?
(gasps)
Maybe I'll just
leave this here with you.
Let 'em pass.
-Let 'em pass!
-Get the hell out of the way!
Did you see that?
Oh, boy! Oh, boy!
How long has
it been unconscious?
-About three hours.
-Let's get him in containment stat.
GREY: As the former head of the CIA,
you knew about this place.
When were you planning on
informing the rest of us?
It had been deemed classified.
You should have told us about this
when they first arrived.
You should have warned us before
we launched a counterattack
that cost the lives
of hundreds of American pilots!
There's no way we could have known
that our fighters
would have been
that ineffective against their attackers!
Mr. President.
The little bit of information we have
comes directly into this room.
Atlanta, Chicago,
and Philadelphia.
Destroyed.
NATO and Western
Allied installations
were the first
to be taken out.
Then we were hit.
They knew exactly
where and how to hit us.
-And our forces?
-We're down to 15 percent.
If you calculate
the time it takes
to destroy a city
and move on,
we're looking at the worldwide
destruction of every major city
in the next 36 hours.
We're being exterminated.
MITCHELL:
Mr. President!
This is Captain
Steven Hiller.
-Captain.
-Mr. President.
Well done.
Where is it now?
We have it isolated down
in the containment lab, sir.
I'd like to go see it.
General, I'm really anxious
to get back to El Toro.
Hasn't anyone told you?
El Toro has been
completely destroyed.
♪ ♪
(sighs)
No.
-We were lucky.
-Yeah.
Today was the first time
I used the subway.
Thank God
for the Metro Rail.
These should
last us a while.
Don't move. I'll get it for you.
Stay still.
He's your son?
He's my angel.
Was his father
stationed here?
No, he, uh...
He wasn't his father.
But I was kind of hoping
he wanted the job, though.
So what do you do for a living?
I'm a dancer.
Oh... Ballet?
No. Exotic.
Oh. Sorry.
Don't be. I'm not.
It's good money. Besides,
my baby's worth it.
Dylan! Come here.
I want you to meet
the First Lady.
-Hello.
-Hi.
I didn't know
that you'd recognized me.
Well, I didn't
want to say nothing.
I voted for the other guy.
Life-support monitors
recording.
So if we screw up,
it's all on tape.
Come on, come on.
Let's get this
biomechanical suit off.
Put the spreader
right here, right along the ridge.
Microprobe thingamajig goes right here.
Pick there. Good.
All right, now spread it
very, very gently.
Let me get in.
Gentle, gentle, that's it.
Run this right in...
(all gasp)
(female technician screams)
(nervous laugh)
All right. Okay.
Let's proceed.
Now comes
the really icky part.
Ugh.
Oh, boy.
This is one smelly,
disgusting...
Oh, look at it.
It doesn't look alive,
does it?
The arm is moving.
(piercing signal blaring)
-(intense groaning)
-Doctor? Doctor?
Aaaagh! I hear it!
Doctor?
-Agh! Get it out!
-Don't move! Don't move!
(female technician screams)
(alarm blaring)
Oh, my God!
Dr. Okun?
ALIEN VOICE:
Release me.
-Open the door. Get him out of there!
-No, wait.
ALIEN VOICE:
Release me.
Now!
I know there is much
we can learn from each other
if we can negotiate a truce.
We can find a way to coexist.
Can there be a peace between us?
Peace...
No peace.
What is it you want us to do?
Die.
(piercing signal blaring)
Die!
Mr. President.
-Is that glass bulletproof?
-No, sir.
(alien screeches)
-GREY: Are you all right?
-WHITMORE: I saw...
his thoughts.
I saw what they're
planning to do.
They're like locusts.
They're moving
from planet to planet.
Their whole civilization.
After they've consumed every
natural resource, they move on.
And we're next.
(alien screams)
Nuke 'em.
Let's nuke the bastards.
Just my luck. No ice.
CONNIE:
I take it you've heard?
Hey, toast.
To the end of the world.
He didn't come to
this decision lightly.
He didn't have
any other choice.
Well, you still believe in him.
Well, he's a good man.
Whoa. Heh.
He'd better be.
You left me for him.
Or, you know
for your career.
You know, it wasn't
just my career.
It was the biggest
opportunity of my life.
I wanted my life
to make a difference.
to mean something.
And, um, I wasn't, um...
ambitious enough for you?
David, you could have done
anything you wanted.
Research, development...
Honey, I was happy
where I was.
Haven't you ever wanted to be
part of something special?
I was part
of something special.
Well, if it makes any difference,
I never stopped loving you.
But that wasn't enough, was it?
♪ ♪
Let's pick it up, man.
We got a tight schedule. Let's go!
(helicopter whirring)
Let's pick it up, man! We're working
on a tight schedule! Let's go!
Pick it up, man!
Pick it up!
What the hell are you doing?
Get out of there!
I got something I gotta handle.
I'm borrowing it.
No, you're not, sir.
Do you really wanna
shoot me?
Just tell 'em
I hit you.
MALE PILOT:
Command, this is Retal Op.
Squadron is in the air.
We are on station
and awaiting instructions.
Roger. Break formation.
Head to targets.
Sir.
They're breaking formation.
GREY: Mr. President,
we're initiating sequence code.
Verification:
Alpha Zulu six eight niner.
Which city will be
reached first?
Houston, Texas. ETA, six
minutes and counting down.
Houston.
GREY: The major cities
have been deserted.
Civilian casualties should
be down to a minimum.
Command,
this is Neighborhood Watch.
We are in position.
Tracking monitors
are locked on.
We are going
to visual recon.
MAN (on radio):
Roger.
-We have confirmation.
-Launch code confirmed.
Alpha Zulu six eight niner,
standing by.
Laser targeting.
Locked on.
We're locked on, sir.
Do you wish to deploy?
Mr. President, if you wish
to deploy, the time is now.
-Mr. President?
-Deploy.
That's a go. Alpha Zulu
six eight niner.
Here we go.
Bird's away.
We have visual confirmation
of the missile. It's on target.
Approaching.
May our children
forgive us.
Five seconds to impact.
Three, two, one.
Oh, yeah! It's a hit!
Get down! Get down!
Can we confirm that
the target was destroyed?
Get the tank
commander online.
I want confirmation
the target was destroyed.
Yes, sir!
Red Arrow, Alpha 9723.
Can you read?
(radio crackles)
Repeat, Commander.
You're breaking up.
MALE PILOT:
We have lost visual.
Roger that. We're looking
for confirmation.
-We got the bastards.
-GREY: Yeah!
-Good job, everyone! Congratulations.
-(applause)
Commander, do you have visual?
I repeat, we need visual confirmation.
Has the target been destroyed?
Negative.
Target remains.
I repeat, target remains.
(sighs)
Call the other
planes back.
One of the bombers
might have more luck.
We shouldn't just
give up on this!
I said call them back!
-Abort.
-Abort mission.
Issue the abort codes
right away.
This is an abort, full
abort. Do you read?
Abort mission, right away!
♪ ♪
STEVEN:
Jasmine?
(gasps and chuckles)
♪ ♪
You're late!
You know how I like
to make an entrance.
-Where are we going?
-Through there, sir.
Mr. President.
Your wife is resting
comfortably for the moment.
Perhaps if we had gotten
to her earlier...
Hey, there she is!
Go on!
She doesn't look
too good.
Your wife is
bleeding internally, Mr. President.
Perhaps if we'd gotten
to her earlier...
What are you saying?
We can't stop
the bleeding.
If we'd...
There's nothing
we can do for her.
We were worried. We didn't
know where you were.
MARILYN: You've gotten
bigger, I think.
I did?
You just keep growing
and growing.
I can't...
Hey.
Can you, uh, wait outside
for a little bit
so Mom can get a rest?
Hey, come on, Munchkin.
I'm so sorry that I didn't come home
when you asked me to.
Oh...
It's okay.
The doctors...
think that you're
gonna be just fine.
Liar.
Is Mommy sleeping now?
Yeah.
Mommy's sleeping.
Hey.
(metallic crashing)
David!
-What the hell are you doing?
-I'm making a mess!
Yeah. This I can see.
We gotta burn resources,
and dump toxic waste,
pollute the air
and rip up the ozone!
Because maybe if we screw
this planet up enough,
they won't want it anymore.
Wait, wait, wait.
David, David.
Don't do this to yourself. Listen to me.
Are you listening to me?
I'm listening.
Everyone loses faith
at some point in their life.
David! Even myself.
I haven't spoken to God
since your mother died.
You see, sometimes,
we have to remember
what we still have.
Like what?
Well, you still have
your health.
Come on, David, David,
you need your rest.
Come on! Get off
of this freezing concrete floor
before you catch a cold.
Come on!
-What did you just say?
-You mean about faith?
Well, you see, a man...
No, no, no.
No, the other part.
What? What? I don't want
you to catch a cold.
Dahhh!
What is that? What's
the matter with you?
Genius.
Genius?
My dad. A total genius.
Jerry, wake up.
We got work to do.
Get everybody
down here right away.
What?
Look at that!
DYLAN: Wow! Does that thing
really fly in outer space?
-It most certainly does.
-Sure doesn't look like it.
They're here.
All right, Connie,
what's this all about?
I have no idea.
Get everybody off.
Right, everybody.
Clear the platform. Let's go.
Major Mitchell.
-Do you have a pistol?
-What?
-Have you got a gun?
-Sergeant, your sidearm.
See that, uh, Coke can
on top of the alien craft?
Think you can shoot
that thing off?
Do it. Shoot it.
Sir?
Go ahead.
(all clamoring)
What the hell
are you doing?!
I'm sorry.
My fault, my fault.
You see, that Coke can was
protected by the craft's shield.
We can't penetrate their defenses.
We know that already.
What's your point?
My point is, if we can't
beat their defenses,
then we gotta get
around 'em.
Major. One more
time... Any time.
-How did you do that?
-I gave it a cold.
I gave it a virus.
A computer virus.
GREY: Are you telling us
you can send out a signal
that will disable
all their shields?
That's right. Just like they
used our satellites against us,
we can use their
own signal against them.
If we plant a virus
into that mother ship,
it's gonna filter down
into all
the corresponding
ships below.
NIMZIKI: I'm sorry.
I don't understand.
How exactly do we
infect the mother ship with this virus?
We're...
We're gonna, uh,
have to, um,
fly their alien craft
out of our atmosphere
and dock with it.
We can enter here, as shown
in these satellite photos.
We then upload the virus, we then
set off some kind of explosion,
which will disable it.
And that'll disorient
the smaller ships below
and that could buy you,
I think at least some time to, uh,
to take them, take them out.
Take them down.
Do your... Do your stuff.
This is ridiculous!
How long would
their shields be down?
Uh, I don't know.
A matter of minutes.
You want us to coordinate a massive
worldwide counterstrike
with a window
of only a few minutes?
With shields down,
it might be possible.
Oh, please!
We don't have the manpower
or the resources
to launch that kind
of a campaign!
Not to mention that
this whole cockamamie plan
is dependent on a machine
that no one in this world
is qualified to operate.
I wouldn't say that, sir.
I've seen these things
in action.
I'm well aware of their
maneuvering capabilities.
With your permission, General,
I'd like the opportunity to try.
That thing is a wreck.
It crash-landed back
in the '50s.
We don't even know
if it's capable of flying!
Jim, uh,
remove the clamps.
(computer keys clacking)
♪ ♪
Any questions?
Let's do it.
MAJOR MITCHELL: All right,
you heard the president...
-Good luck, pilot.
-Thank you, Mr. President.
A virus.
Your idea.
That's right.
Do you really think
you can fly that thing?
Do you really think you can do
all that bullshit you just said?
Whoo.
I understand you are
upset over the death of your wife.
But that's no excuse
for making another fatal mistake.
No, the only mistake
I ever made
was to appoint
a sniveling little weasel
like you as
Secretary of Defense.
-I don't think you understand!
-However,
that is one mistake
I am thankful to say
that I don't have
to live with.
-Mr. President--
-Mr. Nimziki, you're fired.
Let's organize every plane
we can find
and get us some goddamn
pilots to fly 'em.
Yes, sir.
He can't do that.
Well, he just, uh, did.
Command has attempted to compile
a list of casualties and losses,
but information
is sketchy is best.
We know we've lost the Belgian
contingent in the Sinai.
There's a strong possibility
there may be more reinforcements
hiding in the Golan Straits.
(speaks Arabic)
What the hell's
he saying?
It seems they're getting
a signal. Old Morse code.
-(speaks Arabic)
-(Morse code beeping)
It's from the Americans.
They want to organize
a counteroffensive!
It's about bloody time!
What do they plan to do?
They claim to be able
to bring down their shields.
When do they want to attack?
(Morse code beeping)
The attack begins in 5 hours.
GREY: We have confirmed reports
of combat-ready divisions
in Europe, the
Middle East, and Asia.
That's impressive. Considering
it's all being done with...
GREY:
Morse code.
The armed forces here?
We have sufficient aircraft
for the battle plan, but...
-But what?
-Pilots are coming up short.
Well, then, find 'em.
Ham radio operators
from New York to Japan
trade rumors of military
forces in hiding
unwilling to reveal themselves
for fear of annihilation...
What we're planning at this time is
to launch a counteroffensive.
However, with our
depleted manpower,
we're asking that anyone with
flight experience come forward.
Military training
is preferable,
but anyone who can fly
a plane would be useful.
I can fly. I'm a pilot.
MAN: All right, guys!
Listen up!
MITCHELL: Pay attention.
These F-18s are very different
than the jets
you piloted before.
-It's kinda strong.
-Forgive the expression,
but you're about to get a crash
course in modern avionics.
-Keep it coming.
-Okay, you got it!
All right, listen up. Before we begin,
we're gonna have to get
a little background information
on your flight experience.
Let's start with you.
Who, me?
Yeah.
Well, I'm, uh,
Russell Casse, sir.
And, uh, after 'Nam,
I got into crop-dusting.
And, uh, been doing
that ever since.
On a personal note,
sir, I'd just like to add that, uh,
ever since I was kidnapped
by aliens 10 years ago,
I have been dying
for some payback.
I just want you to know that,
uh, I won't let you down.
GREY: You have one tactical
nuclear missile,
we're loading into this launcher
we're installing under the right wing.
This is the firing mechanism.
It'll be attached to
the ship's main console.
Just like the Amraam
launch pad on a Stealth.
Except the nuke will
not detonate at impact.
You'll have 30 seconds
to get your asses out of there.
Good luck, gentlemen.
30 seconds.
It's the strongest radio
transmitter we could get.
It'll tell us when you've
uploaded the virus.
30 seconds. Don't you think
that's cutting it a little too close?
We're gonna be well
on our way back home
before we shoot
that thing off.
Why you? David!
I don't...
I don't understand,
why you can't show someone else
how to plant the virus.
No, no. Something
may go wrong.
I may have to think quickly,
adjust the signal.
Who knows?
Hey, you know how I'm always
trying to save the planet?
Here's my chance.
Now he gets ambitious.
DYLAN:
It's too tight.
Well, I had
to borrow it. Let me see.
Okay. All right,
I guess that's good enough.
So. How do I look?
Oh, thank you.
You're a lot of help.
-You're late!
-Well, you know me.
I know. You like to make
a big entrance.
Here, let me help you.
Listen. Before we do this,
I just wanna say I'm sorry.
Sorry for what, babe?
I should have done this
a long time ago.
Do you have the ring?
Uh, yes, sir.
Here, make yourself useful.
Ow!
Witnesses?
-Um...
We got hung up.
CHAPLAIN: Well, let's get
this show on the road.
Dearly beloved, we're gathered here
in the sight of God
and in the presence
of these witnesses
to join this man and this woman
in holy matrimony.
Any person who can
show good cause
why these two
should not wed,
please speak now
or forever hold your peace.
Steve, will you take this woman
to be your wedded wife
to live together with her in
the holy state of matrimony?
Will you love her,
comfort her, honor,
and keep her in
sickness and in health,
and, forsaking all others,
keep yourself only for her
as long as you both shall live?
I will.
Whoo!
Good morning.
They're a little young.
That they are.
They look a little nervous.
I need all flight crews
to report to their
designated areas immediately.
-Major. Can I borrow that?
-Sir.
Good morning.
(amplified)
In less than an hour,
aircraft from here will join
others from around the world.
And you will be launching
the largest aerial battle
in the history of mankind.
Mankind.
That word should have
new meaning for all of us today.
We can't be consumed by our
petty differences any more.
We will be united
in our common interest.
Perhaps it's fate that
today is the Fourth of July.
And you will once again
be fighting for our freedom.
Not from tyranny,
oppression or persecution.
But from annihilation.
We're fighting
for our right to live.
To exist.
And should we win the day,
the Fourth of July will
no longer be known
as an American holiday,
but as the day when the world
declared in one voice,
"We will not go quietly
into the night!"
"We will not vanish
without a fight!"
"We're going to live on!"
"We're going to survive!"
Today, we celebrate
our Independence Day!
(cheering)
Yeah!
Let's go!
MITCHELL: Mr. President.
Right this way, sir.
-I've got your gear over here.
-Good luck!
I've got a jumpsuit for you
and the rest of your gear is
squared away in this duffel.
You've got your choice of helmets.
Mr. President, I'd sure like
to know what you're doing.
I'm a combat pilot, Will.
I belong in the air.
Okay, sir.
Let's get you airborne.
Right over here.
As soon as I get back,
we're gonna light
those fireworks, all right?
Here. Take these.
Just in case. Heh.
Where's...
Just in case.
I'm very proud of you.
Be careful, okay?
It's time.
I love you.
Oh, damn! Wait a minute,
wait a minute.
We gotta find some cigars.
I can't...
Here! Here! Take
these. My last two.
You are a lifesaver.
Almost put a hex on
the whole damn thing!
MALE COMPUTER VOICE:
Good morning, Dave.
-Missile launch.
-Oh, crap!
-What did I hit? Which one?
-(alarm blaring; powering up)
(alarm stops; powering down)
I picked a hell of a day
to quit drinking.
(alarm sounding)
This is our victory dance.
Not until the fat lady sings.
Oh. Yes, okay.
This is important.
Mmm. Fat lady. I gotcha.
MAN (over P.A.):
Open launch tunnel.
Shaky, huh? Is it gonna
do this the whole way?
Please make sure your seat backs
and tray tables
are in their upright
and locked position.
Yeah. Is it?
Let's rock 'n' roll.
Oh!
Oops.
Oops?
What does that mean?
No, I got it.
Some jerk didn't put the thing.
What do you mean,
saying "Oops" there?
What do you say we try
that one again, huh?
Yes, yes.
Yes, without the "Oops."
Thataway.
HILLER:
Whoa!
(DAVID shouting)
I have got to get me
one of these!
No, no. What was that?
Don't do that!
Just trying to get a feel
for the old girl, that's all.
No, no, don't.
Leave her alone.
-Look, no hands!
-Steve!
(laughs)
-You're all secure, sir.
-Grey, do you read me?
Roger, Eagle One. Your primary
target has shifted course.
-Which way they headed?
-I think our secret's out.
They're headed straight for us.
ETA, 26 minutes.
(groans)
You still with me
over there?
What the hell
was I thinking? Oh!
I've been waiting for this
my whole life.
Head straight for it.
-What the hell?
-Don't touch them. Don't, don't!
I was counting on this.
They are bringing us in.
When the hell was
you gonna tell me?
Oops.
We've gonna have to work
on our communication.
We have visual.
Do not engage until we've confirmed
the package has been delivered.
Roger.
Major, what happens
if that thing gets here
before the virus is planted?
Ma'am, this facility's buried
deep within a mountain.
It should provide us some protection.
Great. What about
the people outside?
Lieutenant Recelle?
We got incoming.
♪ ♪
Oh, my God.
Look at that.
DAVID: There must be
thousands of them.
Millions of them.
What the hell are they doing?
Looks like they're preparing
an invasion.
Hey, I don't like this!
This is stupid. They can see us.
No, no. This thing
comes fully loaded.
AM/FM radio, reclining
bucket seats and...
power windows.
Come on, baby.
We're in.
Do it. Do it.
Do it.
Sir, he's uploading the virus.
Eagle One, the package
is being delivered.
Stand by to engage.
Roger.
Eagle One, check left.
MALE OFFICER: Listen up!
We have an emergency situation.
We need everyone to grab
everything they can.
Only what you can carry.
We need to get you inside
immediately.
The virus is in.
All we can do now is pray.
Delivery complete. Engage.
Delivery complete.
It's a go.
Eagle One.
Fox three.
Gentlemen, this is it.
Come on, come on,
come on.
Damn it.
Virus ineffective.
Disengage.
-Get your people out.
-Disengage.
Rear flank, follow suit.
WHITMORE:
Hold on, Command.
I want another shot at it.
Sir, I strongly recommend
you disengage.
Eagle One.
Fox three.
-(cheering)
-Direct hit!
It's a hit! Squadron leaders,
fire at will!
Fire at will!
We're going in.
Squadron leaders, take flight.
-Eagle Six at seven.
-Eagle Five at three.
Eagle One. Fox two.
Eagle Twenty! Fox two!
Evasive maneuvers! Squadron
leaders, evasive maneuvers!
Prepare to engage!
All right, Mr. President!
Here we go!
All right, baby.
I've gotcha!
Payback's a bitch,
ain't it?
Okay. Job's done.
Let's go home.
Gladly.
(thump)
What's up?
It's stuck.
-What?
-It's not responding. It's stuck.
Try it again.
Come on, come on!
Inside!
-Get to the back of the elevator!
-Hurry!
Come on. Come on!
(screaming)
Steve! Steve!
What the hell are you doing?
It's not me.
They're overriding the system.
Oh, shit!
Um, hide.
(screaming)
Everybody hold someone's hand.
Hold hands.
Come on in.
(JULIUS prays in Hebrew)
I'm not Jewish.
Nobody's perfect.
(continues praying)
Are you scared?
Me, too.
-Eagle Seven, fox two.
-Eagle Three, fox two.
We're running out
of missiles, sir.
We're not causing
enough damage.
It's settling directly over us.
They're preparing to fire
their primary weapon!
Then let's take it out
before it takes us out.
Target at 12 o'clock!
My God! They're everywhere!
-Bandits on our tail! Locked on!
-I see 'em!
Squadron leaders,
I want a weapons check!
You're out of
time! You've gotta disable it now!
I'm in range. Locking on.
I've got tone.
Eagle One, fox two!
That is a negative impact.
That is an NI.
Negative impact.
I'm out of missiles.
Eagle Two!
I'm on it.
Oh, Jesus!
Sir, all missiles
have been fired.
You're out of time!
Get your ass out of there!
-We're not done yet!
-Get as far away as you can!
Doesn't anyone have
any missiles left?
RUSSELL: Sorry I'm late,
Mr. President!
I kinda
got hung up back there!
-Pilot, you armed?
-Armed and ready, sir!
I'm packing!
-Who is that guy?
-Put him on speaker.
-Pilot, identify yourself.
-It's me!
Russell Casse, sir.
I told you
I wouldn't let you down!
Just keep those guys off me for
a few more seconds, will you?
Okay. Echo Niner, Echo Seven,
take flanking positions.
I want you to look
after this guy, okay?
All right, boys.
Let's give Mr. Casse some cover!
Gentlemen!
Let's plow the road!
We'll draw them off
and it'll be all yours!
Oh-ho! Look out!
Coming through!
I've got tone.
Eagle Twenty. Fox two.
(alarm blaring)
It's jammed.
It won't fire!
Damn it!
(alarm blaring)
Do me a favor.
Tell my children
I love them very much.
All right,
you alien assholes!
In the words
of my generation,
up yours!
Dad! What's he doing?
RUSSELL:
Come on, baby!
Come on, baby, come on!
Good luck, buddy.
(laughing)
Hello, boys!
I'm back!
He did it!
The son of a bitch did it!
(cheering)
All right!
What your father did
was very brave.
You should be proud of him.
I am.
We know how to take 'em out,
General. Spread the word.
(cheering continues)
Get on the wire to every
squadron around the world.
Tell them how to bring
those sons of bitches down.
What do you think?
(sighs)
Checkmate.
Well, it's funny.
I always thought things
like these would kill me.
(chuckles)
Thank you.
It's been a pleasure.
Steve, you too.
Only one thing
left to do.
Ready?
Yes, sir.
Hey, all right!
Look at us!
Take a look at
the earthlings. Goodbye!
Y'all take care, all right?
Nothin' but love for you!
-Goodbye!
-Nothin' but love for you!
Do you think they have any clue
what's about to happen to 'em?
Oh, not a chance in hell.
Good night!
(alien squeals)
(recorded evil laughter)
Peace!
We're loose. Can you get us
out of here in 30 seconds?
I ain't heard no fat lady!
Forget the fat lady.
You're obsessed with the fat lady.
Drive us out of here!
-They're chasing us.
-Oh, really. You think?
Oh, that was a hit.
I took a hit.
We're not hit! We're not hit!
Stop side-seat driving!
Left, left! Tunnel, tunnel!
Exit left!
Where the hell
do you think I'm going?
Okay, okay. We're...
Agh!
-They're closing up on us.
-Shut up, shut up, shut up!
Go faster, must go faster,
must go faster.
-Go, go, go, go, go!
-Aaaaaah!
STEVEN: Oh!
Elvis has left the building!
(imitating Elvis)
Thank you very much.
Oh, I love you, man.
(growls)
(lively chattering)
(cheering)
(yelling in foreign language)
(crowd cheering)
(cheering)
They're going down
all over the world, Tom.
We got 'em beat.
How about our two delivery boys?
Any word from them?
We lost contact
with Captain Hiller
and Levinson
nearly 20 minutes ago.
(radar beeping)
Hold it! Hold on, sir.
I've got something on radar.
Sorry, sir.
-Good job.
-Thank you.
-Well done, Captain.
-Yes, sir. Thank you, sir.
David...
Not bad.
Thank you, Mr. President.
Not too bad at all.
Oh, so this is healthy?
Oh, I could
get used to it.
(both chuckle)
(distant explosions)
Happy Fourth
of July, Daddy.
Same to you, Munchkin.
Didn't I promise
you fireworks?
Yeah.
♪ ♪
(suspenseful theme playing)